---
layout: post
title: "MSc Thesis"
date: 2018-04-16
---

The official place names and administrative boundary lines drawn on maps don’t always tell the whole story. In Great Britain there are countless places which are only referred to informally or colloquially by their inhabitants, which don’t always appear on Ordnance Survey maps or which have never been officially defined by the government. The language and terminology used by citizens to describe their local places and spaces is known as vernacular geography. 

Vernacular geography is a fascinating subject and could be used by people to describe any topographical feature such as settlements, woodlands, fields, hills, water bodies and tracks. Terms could also be used to describe imprecise, informal geographic regions, such as “The Midlands” or “The West Country”. Some of these places and vague regions with vernacular names have evolved from spaces long lost to history, such as ancient parishes and landmarks, others have sprung up around thoroughfares and modern transport and social hubs.

I recently completed my thesis for a MSc in Geographical Information Technologies through [UNIGIS] (https://unigis.net/) with sponsorship and support from [Centremaps at Laser Surveys] (https://www.centremapslive.co.uk/). My thesis was titled “Exploring vernacular perceptions of spatial entities: A case study using social media data and R for delimiting vague, informal neighbourhoods in Central London, UK”. The premise of the study was to study the informal nature of how citizens discuss and conceive geographic regions, in this case neighbourhoods, by using data from the social media service Twitter. 
